Proposal
================

# The motivation for this project

# The intended final products

Our project culminates in the creation of a comprehensive website
serving as the central hub for all project-related information and
tools. The website will feature:

Homepage Overview: A welcoming homepage providing a succinct overview of
the project. It will include essential information such as the project’s
objectives, motivation, the initial questions we aim to address, and a
brief intro of our team members. Additionally, a screencast will offer
visitors a guided tour of our project, encapsulating our journey from
conception to realization. Data Exploration: A dedicated section for our
data sources and exploratory data analysis (EDA), offering insights into
the foundational data that informs our research and models.

The website will also host a suite of interactive tools, visualizations
and statistical models focusing on three key topics: Geographical
Analysis Tool: An interactive ‘Shiny’ application that maps the
distribution of Alzheimer’s Disease (AD) patients across the United
States, allowing users to identify patterns and hotspots. Risk Factor
Analysis: We will develop statistical models to analyze the risk factors
associated with Alzheimer’s Disease, providing valuable insights into
prevention and early detection strategies. Clinical Trials analysis:
Alzheimer’s drug development pipeline. A spotlight on two recently
released medications will give a further comparison of efficacy, side
effects, and other critical metrics, empowering stakeholders with
data-driven insights.

# Anticipated Data Sources

# The planned analyses / visualizations / coding challenges

In this project, we aim to comprehensively analyze the landscape of
Alzheimer’s disease (AD) patients in the United States. Part 1 involves
mapping the geographical distribution of AD patients across the country
using R packages such as ggplot and leaflet. In Part 2, we will employ
data manipulation and analysis tools like tidyverse, MASS, and various
statistical methods including principal component analysis, cluster
analysis, and regression modeling to identify key factors contributing
to the disease’s onset, such as age, gender, and ethnicity. Finally, in
Part 3, we will perform a comparative analysis of two recently released
drugs targeting Alzheimer’s disease, utilizing visualization packages
like ggplot2 and plotly to create informative charts and graphics that
illustrate the effectiveness and specificity of these medications.

# The planned timeline
